we start with a developing story this
hour that Hamas says its Deputy
political leader Salah alarri has been
killed in a blast in Beirut the capital
of Lebanon local media have described
the explosion as an Israeli drone attack
on the Hamas office in the south of the
city Reports say five other people were
killed in the blast video footage shows
a car in flames and damaged to buildings
in a busy residential area which is
known as a Hezbollah stronghold well
within the last hour and advisor to the
Israeli Prime Minister has said that
Israel has not taken responsibility for
that attack but they say it was not an
attack on the Lebanese State saying
whoever did this did a surgical strike
against the Hamas leadership well Hamas
has blamed Israel for the strike earlier
I spoke to our correspondent in
Jerusalem about the reaction from
Israeli authorities and we did reach out
to them after local media as you've
mentioned Ben um attributed this blast
to an Israeli drone attack we reached
out to the IDF who came back to the BBC
and said they would not comment um on
reports from foreign media um we did get
confirmation that it's that Salah aluri
the uh Deputy head or the deputy
chairman of hamas's Po Bureau um has
been killed in this blast and we have
had uh we've had reaction from lebanon's
caretaker prime minister naib mikati he
described the blast um as a as a new
Israeli War crime that aims to drag
Lebanon uh into a new phase of the
conflict according to what he said we
also um got this line just now from Mark
RV an adviser to the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu he was
speaking to the American Network MSNBC
and said that Israel did not take
responsibility for the attack but quote
whoever did it it must be clear that
this was not an attack on the Lebanese
State whoever did this it was a surgical
strike against the Hamas leadership
confirming there that a senior Hamas
official has been killed um in this
blast I think it's very significant and
it's worth pointing out who was skilled
but also where he was killed you refer
to it um Salah Lori was killed in the
dah the southern district which is seen
as a hisbah stronghold Hamas and hisbah
have very close a very close um
relationship salahi himself um is very
involved in hamas's military structure
he was one of the people that formed the
um aadin Kasam brigades the military
wing of Hamas so this is a very Hamas
senior official right up in the pit
Bureau of the group killed in Hezbollah
stronghold yes and Sean you mentioned
this as well there will be a lot of
nervousness right now and we've talked
about this before about the potential
for this Israel Gaza crisis to escalate
beyond the borders of Gaza and Israel
and this could be a sense that that is
happening um what do we know and and you
touched on the response we've had both
from the IDF but the authorities there
about it being a targeted strike but it
will make a lot of people very nervous
that this crisis is
spreading it will make a lot of people
very nervous especially of course um in
Lebanon but look if if if what you can
read in nij MTI the the Lebanese prime
minister he is accusing Israel of
dragging Lebanon into this conflict and
also remember as we as you say Israel
has not taken responsibility for this
attack but the timing of it this comes
as the northern border between Israel
and Lebanon has been heating up quite a
bit with a continued exchange of fire
with very very strong rhetoric from the
Israeli um leadership whether it's
Benjamin Netanyahu or uh or the you know
a war cabinet minister or the defense
minister they've all Ratched up the
rhetoric that if hasbalah is not going
to be limited um and pulled back from
the border that Israel was going to do
it we cannot draw a direct line between
what's happening in on the border and
this but the timing of it makes this
extremely volatile right now in the
region that's shalil there with the very
latest on what we know so far